The Oldridge family based on characters originated by Clifford Goldsmith and starring Ezra Stone as Henry with Jackie Kalk as Homer.
Henry! Henry Oldridge!
Coming, brother!
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And now for the Aldrich family.
To an impulsive wide awake teenage boy, each new day is like a surprise package.
If you open it and all sorts of excitement pop out, as Henry Aldrich knows only too well.
The scene opens in a classroom of central high school.
It is the morning of the day before Thanksgiving.
- Madam Chairman! - Honor! Madam Chairman!
I am! Let's have the parliament in for stage!
And now, who wants a plug?
I do!
The chair recognizes Charlie Clark.
From that section!
Yeah, Henry!
Okay, Charlie, shoot!
Fellow committee members, I say the reason we've only sold 20 tickets for our Thanksgiving dance tonight is because we have an appeal to the school spirit of our class.
We've got to make them realize Central High is counting on them to put their shoulder to the wheel and get out there and dance!
And if that doesn't work, I say let's get Ms. Eggleston to give everyone who doesn't buy a ticket a detention.
Why?
Yeah, so...
Wait a chairman!
And a chairman, I object. That's against the Bill of Rights.
The Bill of Rights? The Bill of Rights? Homer, show me one place in the Bill of Rights where it mentions a detention.
It's there, Charlie. Read between the lines. Read between the lines.
I'll read between the lines yourself. I say give them a detention.
No!
Yeah!
- I'm telling you Mr. Curly addressed the remarks to the chair. - Watch it.
- Me? - Madam Chairman.
- I mean, I told you to sit down. - But I've got a suggestion.
- I mean, every time you make a suggestion, at least it's trouble.
- Down. - I make a motion we hear Henry.
- Nobody seconds it. - I'll second it.
- It's her. - Why not? It's my motion.
- Oh, okay, but why not Henry? - Thank you, Madam Chairman.
Mmm!
Fellow members, I've been listening with a great deal of interest,
Pro and Con, and I'm forced to ask myself,
are we whistling up the wrong tree?
And he's not dragging in trees and getting a pond.
What I mean is every year we go to these Thanksgiving dances and what happened?
That's a good question. I'm glad it was brought up.
I'll tell you, I'd be glad to.
Why do we to dance?
What else did you expect?
I'm glad you asked.
I say let's climax our dance tonight with a good old-fashioned turkey run
and we'll sell every ticket we've got.
Oh, what? A turkey run!
Just when everybody's getting good in board dancing with each other,
we turn this 25-pound milk-fed country-raised turkey loose
and the one who catches them keeps them.
Oh, no, that's not!
Why?
If you think I'm gonna run after a turkey and my new dress your crazy...
Agnes is right.
Yeah, wow.
This guy's weekend a four to give away a 25-pound turkey.
Thanks, Justin.
I know where we can lay our hands on a turkey for as little as $5.
$5.
Can you realize what turkeys cost today?
Homer, there isn't a thing to worry about.
Give me a new cut of turkey up your sleeve.
Madam Chairman.
I want the chair.
Look at it this way.
This way.
Mother, I don't care what you say. I'm not going in there again.
He hates me.
Now, Mary calm down.
But he does.
But when he looks at me out of one eye,
Mother, I've never seen anything so sneaky in all my life.
But Mary, the wash has to be hung out.
And I'll hang it, Mother. But someone else has to go into the garage for the clothespin.
Mary, really.
I hate to tell you where he tried to bite me.
He tried to bite you. My goodness.
- Goodbye, Alice. I'm leaving for the office.
- Sam, I'd like to speak to you first.
- Yes, something wrong.
- Sam Aldrich, for the last time, he has to go.
- Who?
- You know very well who. That turkey, your brother, John, sent us.
- Alice, he's a wonderful turkey. He's milk-fed.
- Father, he couldn't possibly get that disposition from milk.
- Yes.
- Sam, you just have to get rid of him.
- Alice, are you sure we can't use him for our Thanksgiving dinner tomorrow?
Now, dear, you know very well I have a clean, freshly dressed turkey in the refrigerator.
Why not send him back to Uncle John?
No, Mary, that would hurt his feelings.
Uncle John, Father, you can say anything to him.
My goodness, the way we joke about his whole family.
Mary, that's only his family. He's very sensitive about his turkeys.
Sam, why not just give it to someone?
That turkey, Mother, who take it?
Well, I'm sure there are many families in Centerville who aren't as fortunate as we are.
as fortunate as we are. And what better time is there for sharing what you have
than Thanksgiving? Alice, that's an excellent idea. I don't forgive it to
Mrs. Dixon. Of course, Sam. She has those three nice children to support. I dropped
the bird off at her house on my way to the off. Good. And be sure to put on your
old clothes. Of course. Dear, that suit just came back from the cleaners and I
won't have you killing a turkey in it. Kill it? I? Now, Sam, don't tell me you're
-Squeamish. -Squeamish, Alice.
-Toby-Silly. It's just that...
-Well, I don't have a good sharp axe. -How about a hammer?
-Marry. -Doesn't Will Brown have an axe?
Yes. Yes, he does. I'll take the turkey right over the will.
-I'll answer the song. -Marry is the bird field guide in the garage.
Yes, Father, but when you go in there, be careful. You don't bend over.
He's very unreliable.
Hello?
- Hi, mother.
Mother, if you could think of the best news I could give you,
what would you say it was?
- Let me see.
- The best news of all.
- You got an A in that.
- What?
- There I'm so proud of you.
- Mother, you're confusing the issue.
What's Latin got to do with good news?
- Very well, I give up.
- I sold Uncle John's turkey.
- What?
- For $5.
Agnes was tough, but when I suggested she could change
to dungarees for the excitement she came around.
- Around the what?
Well, it's Turkey, Ron, to a turkey, Ron, with Uncle John's turkey.
But Henry, we don't have Uncle John's turkey anymore.
What?
You mean he escaped?
No, dear, your father's giving it away.
Well, Gee, where's Stop 'em, mother? Stop 'em!
Now, Henry, Mrs. Dixon and her family deserve a nice Thanksgiving,
just as much as any member of your class does.
From mother, they've already paid me the $5.
What can I tell them?
Just explain that the turkey is for a very worthy cause
and that there's no reason why they can't use something else.
What for instance well we know
Whoever heard of a wiener run
Get busy and dig up a turkey right away. Goodbye. Hey wait
Well my goodness
Mother you should have seen it. You should have seen it seen what the turkey he insisted on getting into the front seat with father
Oh my goodness, and you should have seen them driving down the street with the turkey trying to fly through the windshield
Maybe I ought to have let that turkey go to Henry's dance after all
Homer did anybody notice I wasn't in study period no, but Henry you must have been out of your mind to buy a thing like that
Homer you're upsetting Felix
Felix the duck he was born with a name like Felix
No, but I had to call him something
Can we how are you gonna explain to the dance committee?
They've already got signs up all over the school about having a turkey run home or a duck was all I could get for five dollars
Besides he was he's much cuter than a turkey. He is don't you think so?
We'll hold him up so I can get a better look there
Hello, Becky
- Ah.
(laughing)
- Hey, he's smiling at me.
- How can you tell?
- By the look in his eyes.
(laughing)
- You're a sucky-walkie.
- Oh.
- You're right, Henry, he is cute.
- Sure.
- And besides, we're doing whoever wins them a favor.
- How?
- See, every year it's the same old thing
for Thanksgiving, turkey, turkey, turkey.
Don't you think they'll enjoy the novelty
of eating a duck instead?
(growling)
- What are we quiet?
- What's wrong?
I think you should discuss a thing like that in front of the duck.
Oh, she was. I forgot.
Open my locker for me, Homer.
Okay.
Hen, there's just one thing.
Even if the committee says it's okay to have a duck run, how can you?
What do you mean?
Well, a duck doesn't run. It waddles.
It waddles?
Waddles, Henry waddles.
Homer, you're crazy. A duck runs as well as the next person.
How can it with its toes stuck together like that?
Look Homer, I'll put Felix down and show you.
There. Now, let's back away.
You'll see.
Here, Ducky, Ducky, Ducky, Ducky.
Look at him run.
Henry, that's waddling if I ever saw it.
Oh boy.
Homer.
Homer, where'd he disappear to?
Right over the locker.
There he goes down the hall.
After him, Homer, after him.
Henry, what about my next class?
Haven't you, when he's school spirit,
Our class is five dollars tied up in that duck.
Come on!
How's it coming, Will?
Fine, Sam.
Just a few more turns, there will be shop as a razor.
Good.
How did you dent your pender, Sam?
Well, if you ever tried driving with a turkey in your lap--
[GASPING]
Look Sam, he's apologizing.
He's kind of a cute little fella.
Hello, Tucky, Wookie.
Look at him, Sam. He's smiling at me.
Is that a smile?
Of course.
Well, there we are. Just feel the edge of this ax, Sam.
That's fine, Will. Fine.
Well, go ahead, Will.
Go ahead and watch.
Go ahead and use the X.
What? Nothing going, Sam.
Why me?
It's your X, Will.
Sure, but it's your turkey.
Well, I know how you hate to have other people.
Use your tools.
Sam, this is one time I don't mind.
No, Will.
Now, Sam!
Come on Homer, the duck tracks go right around this corner.
Oh boy, look at them.
Well at least he's easy to follow.
Homer, did you find out how Felix got into art class in the first place?
Well the way I got it, they were painting this bowl of fruits, see?
And the poor little fella must have been hungry.
He was?
But what happened after that is really Mr. Ortsfall.
If she hadn't let out a screen, Felix would never have flown into those paint jaws.
At least he could have picked out two jars of the same color.
Look, red and blue tracks all over the place.
Henry, look. This track stopped right in the middle of the hall.
They can't. He couldn't disappear into thin air.
Henry, that's it.
Why? He started to fly.
Homer, school is no place for flying around.
There's only one thing to do.
Why? Go into the principal's office here and ask him if anyone's seen a duck.
Henry, you're crazy.
But Felix has to be caught before he does some real damage.
Hey fella, it's Charlie Cahn.
Hiya fella, boy, the whole school sure talking about our turkey run.
They are Homer, you see, I've gotta find 'em.
Find who?
Wait here for me, Homer.
I wish you'd reconsider, Henry.
Henry isn't going into the main office, is it?
Boy, learn.
Well gee, I was just in there. I've never seen Mr. Bradley so mad.
What about?
Would you know that fan in his office?
Yeah.
Well, he had it going, see, and some wise guy,
a whole bunch of feathers in it and boy you should see the place.
- Hi there. - All different colors.
Mr. Bradley threatening to expel a kid who did it.
Oh boy, Henry.
Where are you going, Homer?
Stop Henry before it's too late.
Henry, Mr. Bradley will be right out, Henry.
Thank you, Mr. Henry.
We have to talk to you.
She was homered. Don't forget where we are.
Henry.
Mr. Shae, have we located that shooting to his responsible?
Not yet, Mr. Bradley.
And Henry ordered to not speak to Henry.
Henry, I'm too busy to speak to you now.
But Mr. Bradley,
whatever you've broken, just pay for it,
it will forget the whole face.
I haven't broken anything, Mr. Bradley.
No, are you sure?
Positive.
Mr. Bradley, did you know there was something on your shoulder?
Well, it'll take me days to get the feathers out of this suit.
You had something to do with feathers recently?
Oh Homer, you stepped on my foot.
My dear, Mr. Bradley, that was Mr. Schultz, the janitor on the phone,
and he says those feathers come from a duck.
A duck? A duck?
Oh, whoa.
A live one.
What?
Let me say that's ridiculous.
A duck has no place in a public school.
But that's what it was.
Mr. Schultz said he saw it taking a bath in one of the drinking founts.
But--
[LAUGHTER]
Dokes don't come in those colors.
Well, Mr. Schultz can't explain that part of it,
but he says that he knows a duck when he sees it.
Mr. Bradley.
Henry, don't interrupt.
Mr. Bradley, if Mr. Schulz could tell us which way the duck went home, or not, I'd be glad to look for her.
We'll find the duck, Henry.
And we'll also find out who's responsible for bringing a thing like that into Central High.
We will.
Oh, boy.
[Music]
And now getting back to the troubles of Henry Aldrich.
While Mr. Aldrich is having turkey troubles of his own,
the duck which Henry has been forced to buy for the class turkey run has flown the koopa.
The scene opens in a hallway of central high school. It is the same day.
Homer, you mean you saw the duck?
Not personally. But he got an ancient history scene and started heckling Miss Eggles.
Huh? She was reading to the class about Hannibal.
He heckled Miss Eigleston.
She thought it was Toby Smith and sent him home to get his parents.
Oh, no.
Henry, you better find that duck before Mr. Bradley does.
I know, Homer. I know.
Well, she was. I never noticed that before.
Notice what?
That eagle on top of George Washington's picture on the wall air.
Homer! What's wrong?
That's no eagle. That's him!
Who? Felix, our duck!
It is.
He's changed
You're a ducky walkie come down
Well, we haven't time to cultivate his friendship maybe I could knock him down with one of my shoes who know Homer
You might hit George Washington
Felix you come down here, okay
- Henry, you frightened him. - Come back, Felix.
I didn't mean it.
- Hold her hands for him. - Henry, there he goes up the stairway.
- Come back! Don't go up there! - Come back, Felix.
You get in trouble. That's a down stairway.
Hello?
- I don't know how to name these butcher shafts. - Oh, how do you do?
I'm phoning about... just a minute, please.
Do you know what that chunky just did in a whole quarter of hound of Mr.
Davins candy kisses?
Well considering that he's going to be somebody's dinner soon that's the least
we can do for.
Oh hello.
Oh well I've got to put you on the phone.
Hello I'm Mr. Allrich and I'm calling in reference to a turkey.
Turkey?
Yeah.
Even going like hunt cakes.
I think I have one left.
No no I already have a turkey.
Oh you're selling him.
I'm sorry but I can't get rid of the ones I got.
You don't understand.
I have a live turkey and I thought I thought what would you charge
to kill and dress it.
Kill it?
Yes.
I tell you, I'm afraid I couldn't do that.
Why not?
Well, I just scrubbed my floors.
Listen, Delaney, you're not squeamish, are you?
Greenish, of course not.
I guess because I'm a butcher, it's no reason for doing somebody else's dirty work.
No, I love it.
But...goodbye.
Hey, listen, Jackie, stay away from those hot water bottles.
What?
What are you doing down here?
Will he kill it for his hands?
No.
Oh, Sam, you know who might be willing to do it for us?
Who?
Dr. Collins.
I hear he's a very handy man with a scalpel.
Oh, well, we couldn't ask him.
Why not?
He charges $25 a visit.
Besides, we look ridiculous.
But Sam, we've got to find somebody.
Anything I can do for you, Mr. Olrich?
Why, uh--
Mr. The Haven, have you had any experience with Turkey?
Turkey's, I should say.
You have?
Sam, he's our man.
If I do say so myself, we serve the tastiest Turkey
sandwiches in centerville.
Yes.
Well, would you consider--
What's that?
It gets the wrong--
Mr. Olrich, is that your turkey?
I'm going to have a no-get up, Teddy, but just an accident.
Hey, hey, you turkey, get away from there!
Yes, get away! Stop eating those pebbles!
Heavals, those are bath salts, Mr. Old.
Bath salts at $3 a bottle!
Hey, Homer, come on, I'm saving you a safe!
I'm just so I'm not sure I can take the time to eat lunch.
Have you seen Henry here in the cafeteria?
Now, I can't even sit down long enough to hear what happened in Jim Watch, period.
Something happened.
Sure, we were playing volleyball, see?
And right in the middle of it, this bird tried to get into the game.
A bird? Agnes? Was it anything like a duck?
No, it was different colors. More like a parrot.
Oh, it's cool.
And a girl's rock, a brown!
What have I done?
It's okay, kid. That's okay.
But try it once more and I'll slap your face.
I didn't do anything.
Don't kid me. There wasn't anybody close enough to pinch me. It sucked you.
Pinch you.
I pinched you.
So you admit.
Homer, did you have any luck?
No.
He was... I almost had him.
I trailed him to orchestra practice, see?
And he flew right into Albert Harris's tuba.
Why didn't you grab him?
Before I had a chance, Albert blew him out.
No, no, no.
No one, Agnes. Just someone.
- I certainly want to apologize. - Apologize, Agnes?
- For being against your turkey run. - Well, now that I think it over, Agnes,
maybe you were right. - No, I wasn't the desk ticket that they're going like hot cake.
- They are. - You or everybody's helping to catch the turkey.
- They are. - I hope it's a fast one.
A whole track team just got tickets from me.
Agnes, Agnes, look about that turkey. - And we all, Rich.
- What's the matter? - Are you looking for us?
Are you looking for a flop too?
But what did I do?
I suppose you didn't pinch me.
But she whizzed now.
Oh, Stella was you again, Homer.
Agnes, I give you my word.
Somebody pinch me and I dare them to try again.
What did you say?
Homer.
Where is he?
Under the table.
Get down there and grab him.
I cut it out.
I got him, Homer.
I got him.
Then we let go of my hair.
Oh, Jesus.
Fairy, go, look at the next table.
After all.
Oh, my goodness, those are the last tables.
Excuse me.
Shut it out, you.
Hey, watch your feet.
Fairy, go, look at the next table.
Sorry, Mrs. Dine.
What's the word, God?
Oh, my, see you.
I can't get by this guy's feet.
Hey, what's your feet?
You, what's your feet?
I beg your pardon.
Oh, whoa.
Hello, Mr. Bradley.
For those feet attached to you.
They are.
Stand up, please.
Mr. Bradley, I...
No, you won't believe this,
but I was really under the table on school business.
You don't say.
And what school business would take you
under the teacher's lunch table?
The teacher's table.
See, how do we lose our direction like that?
Oh, boy, there he is.
Get that duck! Somebody get that duck!
There's a ghost in the moment.
I'll tell you what, I'll tell you what.
Just a moment.
Just a moment, everybody.
Please, don't leave.
Oh, it's just a moment!
(crowd cheering)
Henry, is that you?
No, Alice.
It's not Henry.
I think I'll go upstairs and take a hot bath and lie down.
Yes, dear.
Did you get the turkey to Mrs. Dixon?
Yes, Alice.
I got it to her.
Good.
And before I forget, here's something for you.
Thank you, Sam.
What is it?
Bath soles.
Bath soles?
But dear, why only half a bottle?
Mr. Dayhaven made me a special offer I couldn't say no to.
Well, thank you, dear.
What did Mrs. Dixon say, Sam?
Say.
When you gave her the turkey.
What?
Allie--
Oh, mother, hello, father.
I don't go upstairs and get a bath right now.
The water will turn cold.
Henry, why are you coming home so late?
Why, there was a little cleaning up at school I had to do.
Well, dear, you better go upstairs
and start getting dressed for dinner
if you want to get to the Thanksgiving dance on time.
Well, I'll tell you, mother, that dance has sort of been postponed.
Really? Why?
Well, the student body's so worn out, there are no shape to dance.
Born out?
Yeah.
From sort of a duck run we had in school today.
So we decided to postpone the dance until Christmas.
Christmas?
At first, but on second thought, we
decided the whole school might not be back in shape even by Christmas.
So instead we're gonna have an Easter egg roll dance.
Oh that sounds lovely.
And mother, when Easter comes around, do you suppose father might be willing to
advance me five dollars?
You see the class is kind of depending on me to provide the eggs.
Uh...
But I'm coming dear.
I wonder if duck eggs are cheaper.
What is it, Sam?
I'll ask you mind if I borrow those bath salts?
Of course not.
I'd like to get a little pleasure out of what happened today.
Fine. And would you answer the phone, please, while I start dinner?
All right. Hello.
Hello, Mr. Aldrich. This is Mrs. Dixon.
Oh, yes, Mrs. Dixon?
Mr. Aldrich, the reason I'm calling.
Well, you see, I found a beautiful turkey tied to my back porch
not more than half an hour ago.
Well, somebody probably wanted you to enjoy a happy Thanksgiving.
Yes, it was very kind of them.
But the point is, I don't need it.
My children found a lovely duck in school today.
Duck?
Yes, and practically all plucked too.
And it's the old rich.
There's no one I'd rather see have this turkey than you.
May, but Mr. Dickson...
Oh, it's a wonderful bird, Mr. Oldrich.
All you have to do is kill him.
Now, wait a minute.
[Music]
Listen again next week, same time, same station, for another sparkling half hour
with your favorite youngster, his family and his pals. The old rich family starring
Ezra Stone is written by Clifford Goldsmith.
(audience applauding)
(static)